It's time to create our very first short code.
What exactly is a short code a short code.
It's just a piece of text that a user can paste into their content that will transform itself into a
catchy email to render your content differently.
That sounds similar to how a block works prior to Version 5.0 short codes were how you would create
dynamic content slideshows video players call outs and just about anything else was built with short
codes instead of short codes WordPress highly recommends using blocks with the introduction of Gutenberg.
As time goes on blocks will be the de facto standard for creating dynamic content for now short codes
are still prevalent and so taking the time to understand how they work will help you with projects that
require you to convert short codes into blocks.
Luckily short codes aren't complicated unlike blocks.
You don't need to know any new features of P or JavaScript.
The short code we're going to create will be very powerful.
What we want to do is provide a form that a user can use to submit a recipe.
In this part of the course we'll be looking at how to create short codes.
Make ajax requests sanitizing each team email and creating a post dynamically.
It's definitely a lot to do but I assure you I'll show you every step of the way.
Let's take a look at the short codes API Codex page.
I provide a link to this page in the resource section of this lecture.
Skimming through this page you can see that the short code's API provides a lot of power for customizing
our site short codes can be used almost like tags.
They can have attributes and even content in between creating a short code is almost similar to using
hooks inside the main plugin file under the short code section.
We're going to call a function called add short code this function has two parameters which is the name
of the short code and the function to call when the short code is used.
We're going to call this short code recipe creator.
The function we want to call is our recipe.
Create or short code let's define this function.
Now create a folder called short codes inside the includes folder now create a file called create or
dot BHP and define the function inside here.
Make sure to include it from the main plugin file.
We're going to simply return a Hello World string we can now use our short code.
Let's create a page called submit recipe and insert the short code inserting a short code into the Gutenberg
editor requires a certain block.
If you were to scroll down the list of blocks you should find a category called widgets.
One of the blocks should be called short code and this block to the page.
Basically it's written just like an HMO element but with square brackets instead of angle brackets input
the name recipe creator we won't be adding anything else.
Go ahead and publish the page.
Let's add the page to the main menu as well
if we navigate to our page.
We'll find.
Hello world output.
Now that we've confirmed a short code is working we can begin creating the form back inside the editor
create another file called creator dash template dot P. HP open the file inside the assets slash extras
slash create or dash template dot to exceed.
Copy and paste the code from the text file into the template.
There's nothing super special going on here it's just a regular form using Bootstrap markup.
Each input field has an I.D. attribute which we'll be using to grab the inputs value later on.
I'll provide this template for you in the resources section of this lecture.
You'll notice that I haven't included bootstrap.
This is because our theme already uses Bootstrap.
It's important to in Q bootstrap regardless of whether the theme has it or not it is overkill but necessary.
The only reason I'm not doing this is because this is just an example plugin for this course.
I'm not too worried about adding bootstrap since I already know my theme uses Bootstrap.
Let's output this form now like before we're going to create a variable called creator h t email instead
its value to the value returned by the file get contents function.
I'm going to pass in creator dash template dot P HP and set its second parameter to true.
Then we're going to simply return this variable refresh your page and you should see the form this form
is pretty simple.
We don't have any tags or categories or featured images.
We're going to keep it to just the title and content.
I want users to be able to use the tiny MCP editor for editing the content.
It may be tempting to use the Gutenberg editor but currently it's very difficult to load in the Gutenberg
editor.
You don't have to worry about using a different editor as WordPress will still be able to convert the
content into something Gutenberg compatible to load in the tiny MCP editor.
WordPress provides a handy function for us called WP editor.
Let's use this now right after grabbing our template.
Call the function WP underscore editor in the resource section I provide a link to learn more about
this function.
This function has three parameters which is the default content the I.D. and then some additional settings
we want the content to be empty so we'll pass in an empty string.
The I.D. name is very important on the Codex page.
WordPress tells us to use only lowercase letters or underscores otherwise the editor won't work properly.
In that case I'm going to set the I.D. to recipe content editor let's refresh our page and see the result
of this function.
Well this isn't exactly what we wanted.
We got the editor but there are two problems.
If you look at the HDMI all its output it right outside the form and it didn't replace the text area
filled with the same idea name.
This is because the WP editor function echoes out the editor right away.
We don't want that.
We want to add the editor and replace the text field with that editor to do this.
We will need to do some hacking.
The solution is very simple and that's by using p ps output buffers p p provides a set of function that
allows us to control the output which is what we'll need to make this Ed work the way we want it to.
You'll see how this works in just a moment.
First things first let's go back to the template and replace this form group with a place holder called
content editor back inside the short code function we're going to create another function called our
generate content editor inside this function.
We're going to call the function Obi start.
This is a page for a function that will grab any content that is output it.
This function will prevent the content from being output it until you tell it to or until the page is
finished executing.
So if we were to echo out hello world.
This won't be output it until the script is finished running because of this.
We can ground the WP editor function and put it right after the output buffer it's safe to assume that
the content editor won't be output it right away.
Create a variable named Ed contents and set its value to the value returned by the OMB.
Get clean function this function will grab any content that was output it before this function was called
and return it.
The last step is just to return the edit or contents variable.
To summarize what's going on in this function.
It goes something like this by calling the OBE start function P HP will create a buffer that will grab
any content that has output it into a buffer.
There are various reasons you would want to do this but we do it because you want to grab the editor
and not allow it to be output it when we call the editor.
This is exactly what happens.
It gets stored in that buffer to grab everything inside the buffer.
We use the OBI get clean function since the editor was stored in a buffer.
We don't have to worry about it being output at the OBI get clean function will also take care of clearing
the output so we don't get to editors.
We can now use this function create a variable named editor age to UML and set its value to the value
returned by the R generate content editor function using the string replace function will replace the
place holder with the generated editor HMO
let's refresh the page and you should now see the editor placed correctly inside the form.
This is exactly what we wanted in the next lecture.
We'll take a look at how to make this form work.